#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
MinCenter: using clustering in global optimization
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Vasileios Charilogis, Ioannis G.
 Tsoulos
\begin_inset Foot
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Corresponding author.
 Email: itsoulos@uoi.gr
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
\begin_inset Formula $ $
\end_inset

Department of Informatics and Telecommunications, University of Ioannina,
 Greece
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
A common problem arises in many scientific fields is that of locating the
 global minimum of a multimodal function.
 A novel clustering technique that tackles this problem is introduced here.
 The proposed method creates clusters from uniform samples of the objective
 function with the usage of the Kmeans clustering technique.
 For every cluster a center is created.
 Finally, a simple rejection procedure is applied to the created clusters
 in order to remove clusters that are close to others.
 The proposed method is tested on a series of well - known optimization
 problems from the relevant literature and the results are reported and
 compared against the simple Multistart global optimization method.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Keywords
\series default
: Global optimization, clustering, hubrid methods, numerical methods.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
